hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery here again
with another China history podcast we're
back to ancient days again after
loitering in the 20th century the past
eight weeks so far in this year of the
dragon we've only produced five podcasts
from the olden days there was the young
show episode just before the Spring
Festival the Silk Road series and the
short one on Guan Yu everything else has
been sort of 19th century to present-day
the character for you
Guan Yu is the same exact character of
the name of today's China history
podcast topic this one is young you that
third tone you meaning feather Guan Yu
the God of War and many other things and
Xiang Yu who fought Leoben between the
years 206 and 202 BC
and to the victor went the legacy of Qin
Shi Huang who had unified China a mere
15 years before Xiang Yu and Leo pang
are trying to annihilate each other
Qin Shi Huang in 206 BC had been dead
for four years the China history podcast
from June 2010 featured Qin Shi Huang
that was my first podcast and back then
I was trying to keep each episode at
around 10 to 15 minutes each so the Qin
Dynasty podcast was sort of a cliff
notes of an overview of a summary so
today we're gonna go back to the Chien
to the end of the dynasty and we'll look
at two well-known personages from this
time period these are of course Xiang Yu
and his rival lil bung the first is the
topic of today's podcast shall you and
the other of course is the more
well-known Neil Fung who went on to
found the han dynasty and reigned as
hongou soo so let's set this up before
chi chuan went and unified everything at
221b see you hit the warring States
Period that was contained inside the
eastern Cho dynasty this is mid fifth
century BC until Qi Chuang reigned
supreme and all of China
in China in 221 BC was not as big
geographically and vast as it is today
was it was big stretching from yawning
to su chuan but it sort of ended once
you hit the mighty Yangtze south of
there
they had hadn't yet been incorporated
into China proper which had been born
along the Yellow River and the other
great rivers of the north but it was a
mighty conquest one by one the king Ying
Chun of the state of Qin defeated these
seven remaining warring States and in
221 BC after the last one bites the dust
he declares himself Qin Shi Huang the
first emperor his story is well known by
all his brutality his adherence to the
strictest legal ostensibly for giving
nature of his actions his signature
tyrannical atrocities that
counterbalanced his greatness and
gathering together a single Chinese
nation were of course the burning of the
books and the burying of the scholars
and the massive construction works on
the great wall his palaces and his tomb
and the Conscription that came along
with it by the time this emperor
breathed his last he reigned barely
eleven years which was hardly enough
time to finish all that he intended to
do so Qin Shi Huang dies in 210 BC this
is during the time of Hannibal and
Carthage in the west and by 206 it's
curtains for the Chien
the last heir to the throne that chief
Sir Wan did not sit on long is killed
and Leo pang of course goes on later and
founds the Han Dynasty and reigns as Han
Kazu of course I'm getting ahead of
myself so from the first CHP episode we
know changer Huang rains only a little
more than a decade that Sheen starts to
decay and fall apart in fast motion
insurrections spring up everywhere and
the seething resentment against the
dynasty discontent throughout Qin
Dynasty China is almost universal and of
all these uprisings springing up
everywhere
it's only natural that certain rebels
would rise to the top and become more
prominent than you know the next guy
Leoben was one of them but besides leo
bond there were the men of the state of
Chu and most well-known of course being
shown you let's spend a little time and
focus on the state of Chu Chu gua the
state of Chu which if you overlaid it on
top of a present-day map of China it
would be spread out across five
provinces in Central and South China
this includes her nan Jiang sue obey
Hunan and Chun the true state is one of
many fabled historic entities they were
all mostly born out of the feudal times
of the Jo dynasty these states all grew
at varying degrees relative to each
other and when the Jo dynasty began to
degrade these feudal kings of all these
states and micro kingdoms rose up and
fought each other and by the time King
Ying Chun decisively vanquishes the six
contenders for control of the whole of
China the true state among them he
establishes the Qin Dynasty and sets
himself up as Qin Shihuang so the state
of Chu was a mighty power for centuries
before they were done in by their
powerful and disciplined neighbor to the
west the state of Qin there were only
three states left when geeing Jung went
in for the kill there was Chu yin and XI
in 223 BC the once all-powerful Chu
military machine was destroyed after a
long and protracted war of attrition in
the end the highly disciplined and
strict Qin army won out over the animist
taoist nature-loving people from Chu one
of the special things about the people
of Chu state was that they were in the
middle of China geographically
straddling both sides of the ansa just
by pure geographical coincidence they
received the best that traditional
northern China had to offer in the way
of culture politics government and to
mix with this
the best that the southern parts of
China had to offer also made its way
into Chu State and here in this melting
pot you had a mixture of north and south
and much later this North China South
China mixture spread out more evenly to
other parts of the Middle Kingdom and
what ultimately developed is this
Chinese culture we all know and love so
for a time it was the people of this Chu
State who had that something special
about them that nice blend of North and
South China right around this time just
before the Qin defeated the Chu this
would be towards the end of the warring
States Period you had the songs of Chu
the truths one of the great works of
ancient times that somehow managed us
survived present-day it's one of the
great classical literary works in his
compose of poems many bites again
himself
you see Chia and kept telling his King
King qui to beware of the Chien and to
do something to prepare for the
onslaught that was sure to come cheer
and a great poet and loyal upright court
official his advice wasn't heeded
instead he saw his King wallow and
luxury and living a corrupt life seeing
the futility of trying to warn about
something that was such a clear and
present danger Julien delivers one last
warning to the king to pay attention in
278 BC he throws himself into the meal
or gem the meal or River in present-day
whole non-merit near dong ting lake and
from this act we get the Dragon Boat
Festival which honors this great poet in
model Chinese official true never
recovers and they're swept away like I
said in 223 BC 55 years after cheer and
warned what would happen and she sure
Wan was determined to eradicate all
traces of these kingdoms for the sake of
molding one single unified China the
brutal measures he took to do this have
become part of his legacy but with Shi
you're wrong and now gone so soon the
Sun comes out once again and the people
of Chu
begin to rise up and seek revenge
against these brutal Qin oppressors Qin
Shihuang might be dead but the dynasty
he found it needed to be pulled up by
the roots and it is in this context that
our hero today Xiang Yu is born and
plays a major role in shaping the
history the name of the game at the time
of the defeat of the last remnants of
the Qin was to grab whatever legitimacy
one could from the defeated Emperor's
Court then once this was done whoever
was going for all the marbles had to
defeat all rival contenders for the
throne of the Emperor of China like I
said in the end it all came down to two
let's look at Xiang Yu and maybe look at
him as a kind of a case study of the
times sometimes by looking at the life
of one person you can get in even in a
small way a sense of the specialness of
China at least in that amazing time in
its history this time period and the
true Han contention in particular this
is one of those time periods in Chinese
history that leaves a deep impression
because of the size and epic nature of
some of the battles the heroism and the
daring of the principal generals these
eight years in Chinese history from 210
BC to 202 BC they were like the
cartilage between the two bones of the
dying Chien and the emerging Han Dynasty
now the story well sort of been folded
into the whole greater story of how Leo
bong came from you know most humble
beginnings and went on to found the Han
Dynasty the blinding light of that whole
great story sort of drowns out the
achievement of his most formidable rival
Xiang Yu I thought to make this
potentially more interesting I'd borrow
heavily from the latest addition to my
ever expanding China history podcast
resource library
I bought first by mistake so much ins
records of the grand historian I thought
I was getting some all in one edition
but it was only
records of the Qin Dynasty so I spied on
google books
so my Chen's whole tale of Xiang Yu but
you know Google books preview only and
you know how it is Google Books
it gets to the best part you know and
then it will say you know pages 188 to
275 not available or something like that
so I went back on Amazon and bought the
correct book this time covering the Han
Dynasty part one and please allow me to
wade through all the massive details
somach in is famous for I'll just pick
out the orchids among the flowers passed
down to us by China's most illustrious
historian now Chu state was a big area
extending from Sichuan into Hebei right
into the very heart of China's heartland
young you came from the western part he
was born in what is now present-day
suits him in jung-soo province I kid you
not the outfit I work for has a
manufacturing facility there and suits
him he was born in 232 BC the year
Ashoka the great of India died as shall
you is born into this world the Silk
Roads are in their embryonic stage and
it's still 94 years to go yet before
Chang Chen ignites the whole Silk Road
thing so we're still deep in the bedrock
of ancient China when Xiang Yu is born
his grandfather was young yin he was a
loyal Troost a general who went down
fighting against the Qin in 223 BC 2
years before Chien sure Guang unified
China our story begins on a washed-out
Road in an way where an obscure Qin
soldier is marching with his men to the
northern border of Kingdom the weather
has forced them to fall hopelessly
behind in their mission to report for
guard duty up north by a certain date he
thereupon makes the fateful decision
that since the penalty for dereliction
of duty in his case was death he would
abandon his task and together with other
disgruntled and like-minded men that he
led he would rise up and rebel against
his officers and
against the tyrannical sheen rulers and
their enablers this soldier China sure
rises up with his band of rebels
together with his partner in this
enterprise will Gwang he attacks and
often kills any and all Qin officials
they encounter and seize territory
wherever they go their ranks swell
quickly as there were no shortage of
sympathizers in this motley band of
rebels soon turns into a formidable army
and similarly all over the place people
were spontaneously rising up against the
shock and awe of the past decade living
under Qin sure Wong's brutal regime it
didn't take much to get people to rise
up especially once they knew he was dead
so China sure leads these rebels with
the ultimate aim of restoring the true
to its former glory it all starts with
the Dodds us young Chui the dots of
village uprising 209 BC this is during
the reign of the second Qin Emperor who
mounted the throne under dubious
circumstances with the assistance of
some very unsavory characters and we
discussed these guys in CHP number one
shall you is now 23 going on 24
China's uprising is the spark that
brought down the Qin though Changsha
died early on the men he put in place
were the ones who finished off the Qin
the old state of Chu was reestablished
and this set the precedent for all the
old powerhouse states left over from the
Cho Dynasty to again coalesce into their
former shape filling the vacuum of power
and the greatest threat to the dying Qin
Dynasty was Xiang Yu Chang show was a
commoner shall you was military royalty
thanks to his grandfather's defense of
the Chu state when she shot Wong's
general Wang Jian conquered the place
and brought it under chin control this
young family were well known in the true
state and the people there turned to
them as their great hope
Xiang Yu was known among the populace
for his great size well over six feet
tall and for his
legendary strength but even more
well-known was his uncle the younger
brother of his father
this was Xiang Yan wen Zhong whose
father died it fell to Shem Liang to
take care of the young son Xiang Yu this
was a task that Zhang Jian took
seriously but found after time that
Xiang Yu was neither good at learning
nor good at swordsmanship the two main
skills of a nobleman back in the day but
Xiang yang soon learned that Xiang Yu's
passion didn't lie in individual
swordsmanship the young man scoffed at
this saying killing one man was hardly
of interest to him he wanted to know how
to defeat 10,000 men and Xiang yang was
oppressed thus began Xiang Yu's
education and military strategy remember
swoons a-- lived almost 300 years before
shown you from 544 to 496 BC so his art
of war sons of being fought was the main
guide to military strategy as the legend
goes Zhang Liang killed someone in his
hometown in the state of Chu and for
this he had to flee to escape arrest and
the vengeance of the slain man's family
he took his family including Xiang Yu
with him to the state of Wu which was to
the east of Jang su there the good
people of Wu rallied around this famous
Xiang Liang son of Xiang yang he was
quickly set up as a head man in woohoo
and he officiated at various functions
and he slowly began to gather a band of
men who would form the core of a new
fighting force that he would one day
lead against the Qin Dynasty forces as
the story goes one day ginger Wong and
his whole entourage were passing through
the town and young Liang is young you go
to you know check out the scene and
there the young Xiang Yu takes one look
at the emperor in his retinue and says
to his uncle this fellow could be
deposed and replaced Chong yang is
shocked to hear such bold words coming
out of his more-or-less good-for-nothing
nephew but from that point on he
secretly sees
in Xiang Yu the making of a great
warrior
well by 209 BC Xiang Yu and uncle Zhong
young are still in wolf Qin Shi Huang is
dead and Shinar sure is raining after
all these skullduggery following his
father's demise the dodds uh uprising
has shaken the chain to its core but the
dynasty hasn't yet been delivered the
death knell yet Xiang yang and Xiang Yu
plot to seize power and rule they kill
the governor and after a bit of good old
tried-and-true intimidation the army
comes to their side and now they are a
force to reckon with Xiang Liang had
been lying low in wool all this time
slowly gathering a hardcore fighting
force loyal to him alone so his army
wasn't just an ordinary army these
weren't raw recruits for being
conscripted right off the farm
once the she enforces put down Xiang
shut in his rebel army after the dots of
uprising it fell to Xiang Liang and his
70,000 soldiers to be the last line of
defense against the Qin forces and their
ever victorious general Zhang Han during
this time the Xiang Yan sets up a former
prince from the true royal family as the
new king of Chu in this act
Xiang Yu later on will control the state
of affairs through this puppet king and
later Xiang Yu himself will become the
king of Chu and in his final act he will
declare himself the Bao Wong or hegemon
who controlled multiple states beyond
choose borders and these less powerful
allies will acknowledge shown you as
their dictator sort of you know this
time period in the various dramatic
series that had spawned in the 20th and
21st centuries is one of the staples on
Mandarin TV it was a very concentrated
four years of battles oaths famous
things people said or that were
attributed to them that are remembered
today these really were exciting times
and
incredibly crucial to how China might
later develop so much was at stake one
man she sure Wong had conquered all
these kingdoms and states of you know
what was China at the time through the
force of his will he deconstructs
anything that had anything to do with
the disunity of the lands of the new Qin
Empire that one day would be known
throughout the world as China but this
guy up and died so quickly he got
everything all set up established all
the precedents set up the government
system and had ministers that had
created an an administrative framework
that would last for two thousand years
and once everything is totally set up he
up and dies and now all this that he had
created it was sitting there waiting to
be had it was well known that as soon as
the first emperor died the whole
imperial court became utterly
dysfunctional it had clearly lost
heavens favor younglings army went all
over engaging the Qin forces and battles
winning more than losing and he became a
little too overconfident as it seemed
that xin were soon going down for the
count
pride comes before a fall and sure
enough Xiang yang is defeated by the
chain forces led by Jung Han at dinkle
he dies in battle and now Xiang Yu is
the main shine now Zhang Han believes
having kicked some ass in the rebel Chu
state that things were okay there so he
heads for the state of job which like
Chu and other former kingdoms was trying
to shake off the Qin yoke and restore
the kingdom to its pre Qin glory they
dug in their heels at a place called
julu located in present-day ho bay and
there that Jah forces faced certain
defeat at the more powerful forces of
Qin led by their great and masterful
general Zhang Han meanwhile over on the
shoe side Xiang Yu is only one of
several elite generals and as they all
argue over strategy Xiang Yu kills his
rivals and grabs power over the whole
army he becomes the
Supreme Commander over all the various
lands within true state and these armies
are now under his control now shall you
begins to plan his attack on the forces
led by John Han they clash at the Battle
of julu and it's here
for the most part that the Qin military
was crushed with losses of over a
hundred thousand men but a secret
alliance is struck in 207 BC and John
Han is convinced to defect to Xiang Yu's
side which is what he does
Xiang Yu and Zhang Han joined forces and
Jung places himself below Xiang Yu
but after much whispering and
fulmination between Xiang Yu and his
most trusted generals it's decided that
while Zhang Han can be trusted the same
can't be said of his army so one night
the true army turned on the recently
defected Qin army and totally
annihilates them there's a story that of
the two hundred thousand men captured or
who had surrendered many were ruthlessly
buried alive rather than taken prisoner
and shall you did this as an act of
vengeance for the death of his uncle
Xiang yang at the hands of this army and
once this is done
Xiang Yu leads his men against the last
vestiges of the once unbeatable Qin
military machine it was time now to go
in for the kill the place to do this was
in the land of Guanzhong considered the
heartland of the Qin this includes the
area around xiang xin near the near the
qin capital but what suddenly was young
you so close to fulfilling his destiny a
rival emerges that not only steals his
glory but presents himself as a
formidable military foe who sooner or
later must be dealt with this is none
other than the governor of Pei Lee opung
he too is I in Guan Zhong and is
determined to get there before Xiang Yu
does after all the king of Chu had said
whoever gets there first will be made
king of Guanzhong Liu bang was a soldier
who had fought for the Chu State
under Xiang Yu wen Zhang Liang was
killed at the Battle of ding Tao Leo
Bang was made a Marquess by they qu king
was commanded to deal with the Chien
just as young you was doing
so while Xiang Yu was cutting the chin
down to nothing
leo bond was out there acquiring a name
for himself to doing the same thing
before young you can deliver the death
punch leo bung and his army go and steal
his thunder and they arrive at the Qin
capital Shenyang right near modern-day
Xian and they capture the place this was
quite a bold move according to the
established way of doing things since at
the time Leo bang was subordinate to
Xiang Yu in military rank he should have
waited for his boss to arrive but Leo
bong boldly rushed in and took the city
for himself was it for his own benefit
in future glory or did he take it with
the intention of holding it until Xiang
Yu got there whatever the truth was Leo
bungs act definitely did a lot to stoke
the fires of this growing rivalry
after taking Shen yang Leo bung is
famously merciful to the inhabitants and
to the last surviving heir to the Qin
throne a young boy named Sooyoung he had
been the Qin Emperor for less than three
months he was controlled by one of the
great evil rogues of Chinese history the
regent joggle we mentioned him in the
Qin Shihuang episode so Leo pang
consolidates his power in Shenyang and
the people rejoice in his bringing a
measure of stability to the city after
so much recent chaos with all the civil
strife shall you was furious at this how
dare this upstart his subordinate do
such a thing
Leo bong had before been merely a
commoner of no repute but like Caesar
who heaven would naturally favor more
than a century later heaven also
naturally favored Leo bung and it pains
young you to see someone the likes of
Leo bong
making him look bad
so he plotted to kill Leo bung now
technically they were both on the same
side and both paid fealty to the Chu
king but behind the scenes
everyone knew these two were shaping up
to become the two main power centers in
this new post Chien world Jung Yeo gets
as far as this XI River outside Shenyang
and of course there's a confrontation
between the two sides
but Leo pong was no dummy he was
unevenly matched with his hundred
thousand troops facing off against Xiang
Yu's 400,000 troops Leo bong had to play
this one carefully and explore all
options Xiang Yu's trusted uncle Xiang
saw through his relationships was able
to arrange a meeting between the obamas
young you to try and see if there was
some way to settle the rivalry and come
to some amicable agreement on how to
perhaps you know divide up China and
coexist
Leo bong agrees to the meeting and with
a hundred men including his trusted
Marquess of Leo Zhang Liang not to be
confused with Xiang Yu's uncle Xiang
Liang he meets Xiang Yu in his
impressive tent at holman there in the
highly ritualized way that they did
things back then shown you through this
great feast for Leo bung there was wine
flowing and much merriment but despite
all that everyone was tense and with the
way Xiang Yu's men were acting Leo bong
and his men sensed a belligerence that
seemed likely to lead to a confrontation
perhaps at any moment so Leo bong
excuses himself to go handle a call of
nature and he walks away with Zhang
Liang and they get out of earshot Lee
you know both agree this conversation is
degrading too fast and if he sticks
around he's toast so they agree to split
up
Zhang Liang will stay behind and make
excuses
Leo bong says he's gonna go disappear
into the night and try and meet up with
his forces so after Leo bong had enough
time to gallop away and put some
distance between himself and Xiang
kim jung-han goes back to the party and
mentions casually that leo bong has
taken off he had feared that he had
angered Xiang Yu and thought it was best
to leave but you know he left these
gifts and zhang liang presents young you
with some je discs and other ornaments
shown you and his men despite Chong
Yang's diplomacy and the gifts know
immediately that the old bong has
slipped away from their hands and they
are outraged so at least now it was all
out in the open now everyone knew where
everyone stood there was gonna be no
easy way out of this one of them must
fall so with Leo Poong out of the way
Xiang Yu leads his troops into the
former Chien capital of Shenyang and
just sacks the place kills the
inhabitants when he finds the third Qin
Emperor who had already abdicated and
totally swore off any claim to the
throne
he killed him too Xiang Yu's men set
fire to the Qin palaces so that it was
said the place burned for three months
Xiang Yu's men then tell their Lord that
he should build his new kingdom right
here on the ruins of the Qin capital but
Xiang Yu says it must be located in the
state of Chu Zhang Yu exclaims to become
rich and famous and then not go back to
your hometown it's like putting on an
embroidered coat and going out walking
in the night who is to know about it
Xiang Yu then uses the powers vested in
him to make the Chu King why the
righteous Emperor and in all the
conquered Qin lands Xiang Yu sets all
his most loyal generals up with fiefdom
you know this is how they did it back in
those days now you know how it is an
ancient Chinese culture appearances were
very important regardless of the actual
situation certain etiquette had to be
paid attention to and according to the
alliances previously made and the way
everything was initially set up the Obon
was still part of Chu and worked under
the true Emperor so he too in 206 BC had
to get his little fiefdom for all the
hard work and for his contribution and
overthrowing the Qin the prevailing idea
was to get this guy as far away from
possum
where he wouldn't be able to do too much
harm so they gave lil bong the area that
ran from Shaanxi to su chuan and he was
called the king of Han his capital was
at nan Jeong in the southernmost Shaanxi
right on the northern border with citron
he was also given the states of ba and
Shu in su chuan this sort of seemed like
a booby prize
but the part of Sichuan that isn't
mountainous was agriculturally lush and
these grain fields of su chuan would
later keep Leo bung his army well fed
throughout the campaign of what became
known as the chul Han contention the
true Han Yong Chun and if you notice in
the annals of ancient Chinese history
the Han Dynasty officially begins at
this time in 206 BC when the Han kingdom
was established Leo bong hadn't yet set
himself up as the first emperor who we
know is Han called su that would follow
after four more years slogging it out
was young you the dynasty got its name
from this kingdom of hun that leo bond
was handed by the true Emperor why so
once the spoils of the chain have been
divvied up both sides began to plot
against each other and so the chess
match begins and as I mentioned in that
previous han dynasty episode China the
Chinese chess board is divided up into
the true part and the Han part Chu is
the white side and Han is black true huh
Han Jin by the spring of 205 BC Leo bong
has five hundred sixty thousand men
under his command and he sees young Yu
has his hands full fighting up in
Shandong against the state of Qi he
thereupon invades true lands and begins
to inflict some damage word gets to
Xiang Yu that leo bong is marching on
the capital and he rushes back with only
30,000 elite troops but before he can
get back in time Leo bong captures the
true capital of punch on which is
present-day Sciuto Leo Bogdan
himself to as much treasure and loot as
he can get his soldiers all get to enjoy
you know whatever true women they could
get their hands on and everyone just
feasted big time
then Xiang Yu arrives back in the
capital and launches a daring
counter-attack and pushes them out of
Poong hung this was a masterful victory
and a great defeat for Leo Poong at this
point not only did his prestige take a
hit a lot of his men deserted him as his
star suddenly seemed to be dimming young
you just seemed invincible armchair
military strategists later on would
point to this battle of punch on where
Xiang Yu showed his great genius as a
strategist and deserves to be ranked
among China's greatest the Han army was
now in full retreat and Xiang Yu's Chu
forces were chasing them all over
finally Xiang Yu pens leo Punk's army in
and is able to surround him on three
sides with the fourth side being the
sway River in link be near the I'm Kwai
Chang su border not too far actually
from Xiang Yu's birthplace and suits him
just as the Kamikaze divine winds would
do in Japan 1069 years later a huge wind
kicks up and creates this huge dust
storm that led to conditions that threw
everything into confusion and Leo bung
uses this natural phenomenon to escape
from certain defeat against Xiang Yu's
surrounding forces xiang yu's army is
hot and leo bongs trail but as they
chase him down they chance upon the old
bungs family and they become captives of
Xiang Yu Leo bong uses his Wiles to
create dissension in the true ranks and
creates a ruse that led Xiang Yu to
suspect his most trusted general fun
sung Xiang Yu's onslaught appears
unstoppable and Leo pang once again as
to make another getaway to live to fight
another day in 203 BC though after a
stalemate had set in that a loudly Obong
to regain his lost strength the king of
Han
built up his army and more recruits came
flooding into his kin
young you was busy in the meantime
fighting battles constantly mostly in
the East the build-up to the crescendo
was coming and everyone knew it sooner
or later there would be a major showdown
between Chu and Han Liu Bang is young
you throughout this time are in
communication via their know various
envoys Leo bongs army is fully
replenished from the riches of Sichuan
xiang yu's army is battle weary and not
very well fed Chung you in anger
challenges Leo bong to settle everything
in hand-to-hand combat just them to leo
bond dismisses this and says since I am
no match for you in strength I prefer to
fight you with brains Yong you sends
true soldiers one by one to threaten the
Han position and call these Han men out
to fight them one-on-one and the Han
they just shoot arrows at these guys and
kill them and this further and rages
Yong you so he himself runs out and
openly challenges any han bowmen to
shoot him you know and he's menacing and
no one dares to make a move
Yong you had this effect on the enemy
finally it got down to Leo bung and
shown you just trading insults at each
other across a ravine
finally Xiang Yu takes out a concealed
crossbow and fires on Leo bong wounding
him and forcing him to retreat shown you
then went on the rampage against the
lands loyal to the king of Han Leo bond
felt Xiang Yu was invincible and
retreated rather than face him head-on
when the Oban felt he was back up to
battle strength they went on the
offensive him dealt a heavy defeat to
Xiang Yu's general Tojo in this battle
the old bugs army was able to escape
with the wealth of the Chu Kingdom again
hearing of such a terrible defeat Xiang
Yu rushes back from where he was
fighting to see his army too exhausted
to go on for several years
Xiang Yu had driven them hard and they
had battled non-stop all along Xiang Yu
is still holding Leo pangs family Leo
bong
sends an envoy to bargain for his
but Xiang Yu isn't listening finally
thanks to the skillful tongue of leo
bongs advisor Lord ho Yong you proposes
an alliance whereby the two sides divide
up China along a north-south line
between a canal that ran between the
hawai and yellow rivers Leo bong would
get the west and shown you the east and
so China is thus divided up so in 202 BC
Xiang Yu turns back east to head back to
his lands and Chu looking forward to the
massive homecoming and triumphant
returns King Leo bong is advised by his
two most trusted men Zhang Liang and
Chen ping that it's crazy to allow Xiang
Yu to get away and live to fight another
day
they saw he was weakened and his
soldiers were in no shape to fight they
advised Leo bang to strike now or maybe
lose the chance forever so Leo bong
agrees and he pursues young you to
yungshao first there
Leo bong waits for his allies han Xin
and Peng yurt to show up but they no
show and Xiang Yu sees this so he
attacks first and inflicts a huge loss
on Leo Poong the king of Han was able to
make a deal with Han Xin and Poong urine
sweetens is off or you know if they come
to help him this time of need so a deal
is struck and they lead their armies and
they all converge at a place in northern
onwe called
guys yeah and they're at guys Xiao Chun
you had holed himself up in a walled
camp although he had inflicted serious
damage on Leo bung it was the last time
he was tired as were his troops he knew
this was the end and so Xiang Yu on this
last night he awoke in his tent and
drink some wine and passed the time with
his favorite concubine Yue Yue Chi lady
Yu she had a company Xiang Yu wherever
he went
and wherever Xiang Yu went to do battle
or whatever his trusty steed dapple
never left him nor did his beloved lady
Yu and like the Tong
version song who would find himself in a
similar situation when fate made him bid
a final farewell to his beloved young
wife a young you saying to lady Yu the
following lament my strength plucked up
the hills might--might
shadowed the world but the times were
against me and dapple runs no more
when dapple runs no more what then can I
do
ah you my you what will your fate be he
sang these lines to her over and over
when they parted for the last time Chung
you picked a group of eight hundred of
his most loyal soldiers and prepared for
one final stand against the king of Hans
troops he managed to break through to
lio bongs camp and inflicted heavy
damage when he crossed the wai-chun you
was down to his last eight hundred men
by the time he crossed the Yang's ax
just west of Nanjing his 800 had
dwindled down to 100 men and soon he is
overtaken by five thousand of leo bongs
troops Xiang Yu escapes to dong Chung
but now he's down a twenty-eight man
against several thousand Xiang Yu knows
it's curtains for him he turns to his
troops and says it has been eight years
since I first led my army forth and that
time I have fought 70 battles every
enemy I faced was destroyed everyone I
attacked submitted never once did I
suffer a defeat until at last I became
dictator of the world but now suddenly I
am driven to this desperate position it
is because heaven would destroy me not
because I have committed any fault in
battle I have resolved to die today but
before I die
I beg to fight bravely and win for you
three victories and so Xiang Yu went out
in a blaze of glory as he promised his
men he made three charges against Leo
bongs forces and each time he got
through killing many soldiers and came
back a second and a third time to do the
same finally it was over Xiang Yu
bloody mortally wounded stumbled up to a
Han officer and dong Chun and announced
himself and said the immortal last words
I have heard that Han offered a reward
of a thousand caddies of gold and a fief
of ten thousand households for my life
so I will do you a favor and with that
young you reached for his dagger and cut
his own throat died right there and then
five men hacked his body apart so that
they could all claim a piece and get
their fiefdom and a thousand caddies of
gold
Xiang Yu was buried and qu Chun in the
state of Lu at the time of his death
Xiang Yu was only thirty years old hard
to believe isn't it despite his short
life he is today considered one of
China's greatest generals and showed all
his stuff in the legendary Chu Han
contention soon after this all went down
February 28 202 BC Leo Poong becomes the
Emperor who we know today as hongou su
the founder of China's great Han Dynasty
and that my friends is going to be that
we all know what happens afterward Han
Dynasty
goes on to leave its magnificent mark in
Chinese history we'll come back again
and again to look at stories from this
legendary time in ancient Chinese
history
this is Laszlo Montgomery signing off
from the wonderful town of Irving Texas
I'm hearing a quick in-and-out mission
for the company back to Claremont
tomorrow take care everyone and I hope
we'll see you next time for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast